>ADI, a note from Maurice: I have put my comments in here. Can you read them
 and incorporate the ideas into your spec. We need to make some important
 tasks transparent to the user, such as saving programs for each panel and
 desriptor operations. I think the checksum idea described below is the way to do it.
 You dont need to encode it when we send it on the net as far as I am concerned.
 Good work on the spec. 

The WinT3000 Functional Specification
=====================================


Note:

For a quick reference, especially during the development, we will name every
interface-element used in the user-interface.
Ex: Application main window identified by TF1
    Interrupt transfer icon identified by TBInterrupt
    Progress bar panel      identified by STProgress



Contents:
--------
1. The application main window ( TF1 )

  1.1  The title bar
  1.2  The main menu component
  1.3  The tool bar
  1.4  The client area
  1.5  The status bar

2. The menu commands

  2.1 The 'Miscellaneous' command
        2.1.1  The 'Connection' command
                 2.1.1.1 The Connect command
                 2.1.1.2 The Disconnect command
        2.1.2  The 'System list' command  ( TF20 )
        2.1.3  The 'Panel status' command ( TF21 )
        2.1.4  The 'Descriptors' command

>ADI, descriptors, and many other parts of the T3000 system are a classic distributed
 database problem. What I would like is to automate the synchronizing of these
 databases using some careful programming. What do you think of this:
 Create and maintain a checksum for descriptors on each panel
 The same info is maintained on every PC that connects to the site: operator station,
 laptops, and remote PC's.
 When the PC logs in, the local version of the descriptors is loaded. A background
 taks polls each panel for hte checksum and compares it with the one from the
 locall database. If a discrepancy is found, allow the operator to refresh the descriptors
 from only that panel. If the panel has ben cleared, ask the operator if he would like to
 send the default file for that panel. If the panel has been updated by another PC,
 ask the operator if he would like to load hte descriptors to refresh his local
 database.
                  2.1.4.1  The 'Load descriptors network' command ( TF23 )
                 2.1.4.2  The 'Load descriptors panel' command   ( TF24 )
                 2.1.4.3  The 'View descriptors' command         ( TF25 )
                 2.1.4.4  The 'Search descriptors' command       ( TF26 )
        2.1.5  The 'File transfer' command
                 2.1.5.1  The 'Copy File' command     ( TF27 )
                 2.1.5.2  The 'Read File' command     ( TF28 )
                 2.1.5.3  The 'Send File' command     ( TF29 )
                 2.1.5.4  The 'Delete File' command   ( TF30 )
                 2.1.5.5  The 'Rename File' command   ( TF31 )
        2.1.6  The 'Update panel's OS' command        ( TF32 )
        2.1.7  The 'Print' command                    ( TF33 )
        2.1.8  The 'Print preview' command            ( TF34 )
        2.1.9  The 'Printer setup' command            ( TF35 )
        2.1.10 The 'Logout' command
        2.1.11 The 'Exit' command
  2.2 The 'Panel' command
        2.2.1 The 'File' command
        2.2.2 The 'Print panel' command
        2.2.3 The 'Clear panel' command
        2.2.4 The 'Select panel' command
        2.2.5 The 'Network status' command
  2.3 The 'Control' command ( TF58, TF59, TF60, TF61 )
        2.3.1 The 'Screens' command           ( TF50 )
        2.3.2 The 'Programs' command          ( TF51 )
        2.3.3 The 'Inputs' command            ( TF52 )
        2.3.4 The 'Outputs' command           ( TF53 )
        2.3.5 The 'Controllers' command       ( TF54 )
        2.3.6 The 'Weekly routines' command   ( TF55 )
        2.3.7 The 'Annual routines' command   ( TF56 )
        2.3.8 The 'Arrays' command            ( TF57 )
  2.4 The 'Data' command
        2.4.1 The 'Monitors' command
        2.4.2 The 'Tables' command
        2.4.3 The 'Custom units' command
        2.4.4 The 'Alarms log' command
  2.5 The 'Configuration' command
        2.5.1 The 'Set up' command
        2.5.2 The 'Users list' command
        2.5.3 The 'Hardware' command
  2.6 The 'Help' command

3. Working with windows

  3.1 Worksheets
  3.2 Screens
  3.2 Graphs
  3.3 Program editing windows
  3.4 Other windows

4. Hot keys

5. Windows identifiers

    TF1   application main window                 ( see 1.      )
    TF20  'System list'                           ( see 2.1.2   )
    TF21  'Panel status'                          ( see 2.1.3   )
    TF23  'Descriptors'-Load Descriptors Network  ( see 2.1.4.1 )
    TF24  'Descriptors'-Load Descriptors Panel    ( see 2.1.4.2 )
    TF25  'Descriptors'-View Descriptors          ( see 2.1.4.3 )
    TF26  'Descriptors'-Search Descriptors        ( see 2.1.4.4 )
    TF27  'File transfer'-Copy file               ( see 2.1.5.1 )
    TF28  'File transfer'-Read file               ( see 2.1.5.2 )
    TF29  'File transfer'-Send file               ( see 2.1.5.3 )
    TF30  'File transfer'-Delete file             ( see 2.1.5.4 )
    TF31  'File transfer'-Rename file             ( see 2.1.5.5 )
    TF32  'Update panel's OS'                     ( see 2.1.6   )
    TF33  'Print'                                 ( see 2.1.7   )
    TF34  'Print preview'                         ( see 2.1.8   )
    TF35  'Printer setup'                         ( see 2.1.9   )
    TF50  'Screens'                               ( see 2.3.1   )
    TF51  'Programs'                              ( see 2.3.2   )
    TF52  'Inputs'                                ( see 2.3.3   )
    TF53  'Outputs'                               ( see 2.3.4   )
    TF54  'Controllers'                           ( see 2.3.5   )
    TF55  'Weekly routines'                       ( see 2.3.6   )
    TF56  'Annual routines'                       ( see 2.3.7   )
    TF57  'Arrays'                                ( see 2.3.8   )
    TF58  Refresh                                 ( see 2.3     )
    TF59  Font                                    ( see 2.3     )
    TF60  Color                                   ( see 2.3     )
    TF61  Range                                   ( see 2.3     )



1. Application main window ( TF1 )
--------------------------------

	The application main window has five components:
             title bar component
    		 main menu component
             tool bar component
             client area component
             status bar component

1.1 The title bar component
---------------------------

	The title bar contains the text that appears in the window title.


1.2 The main menu component
---------------------------

	The main menu component encapsulates a menu bar and its accompanying
drop-down menus. A menu item can have assigned an accelerator key or a
keyboard shortcut. The accelerator key let the user access the menu item
from the keyboard by pressing Alt+ the appropriate letter. The accelerator key
appears underlined in the menu. The keyboard shortcut let the user perform
the menu item action without accessing the menu directly, by typing the shortcut
key combination. The keyboard shortcut applies to drop-down list and it
appears to the right of the menu item name.
The menu items can be in an enabled or in a disabled state. If a menu item is in
an enable state, the user can select that menu item. If a menu item is in a
disable state , the menu item is hidden (grayed out) and the user cannot select it.
	The menu bar items are:

                 1. Miscellaneous
                 2. Panel
                 3. Control
                 4. Data
                 5. Configuration
                 6. Help

We will refer a menu item also as a menu command.


1.3 The tool bar component

	The tool bar consists of several objects ( buttons, icons or text
displayed ) that provide shortcuts for menu commands. When the mouse moves above
the tool bar objects, a short text will describe the object action. The tool bar
object can be in an enable or in a disable state. The WinT3000 tool bar objects
are:
               Connect button             ( TBConnect    )
               Disconnect button          ( TBDisconnect )
               Select panel button        ( TBSelect     )
               Send program button        ( TBSend       )
               Get program button         ( TBGet        )
               Graph button               ( TBGraph      )
               Panel configuration button ( TBConfig     )
               Help button                ( TBHelp       )
               Connect status window      ( TBConStatus  )
               Alarm button               ( TBAlarm      )
               Interrupt transfer icon    ( TBInterrupt  )

The names in parentheses are the names we will use in documentation to refer to
the appropriate object.

The 'Connect button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Miscellaneous->Connection->Connect
The 'Disconnect button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Miscellaneous->Connection->Disconnect
The 'Select panel button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Panel->Select panel
The 'Send program button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Panel->File->Send
The 'Get button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Panel->File->Get
The 'Graph button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Data->Monitors
The 'Panel configuration button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Configuration->Hardware->Panel configuration
The 'Help button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Help->Contents
The 'Alarm button' is a shortcut for the menu command:
             Data->Alarms log
The 'Connect status window' displays the name of the remote panel and is a
shortcut for the menu command:
             Miscellaneous->Panel status

The 'Alarm button' is a shortcut for the alarms log but at the same time informs
the user about the alarm status. If there is no alarm in the system this icon
has a grey color. If there is at least one alarm in the system the icon is
displayed in a red color and a sound could be played at about 30 seconds interval.
The 'Interrupt transfer icon' shows if there is a data transfer between the
user station and the remote panel. When the user click on this object the
current data transfer will be interrupted.



1.4  The client area component
------------------------------

    The client area is the area in the middle of the application main window
between the tool bar and status bar used by the as the working area.


1.5  The status bar component
-----------------------------

	The status bar is a row of objects (panels), aligned at the bottom of the
form, that display information about the application as it runs.
The WinT3000 status bar objects are:

               Progress bar panel  ( STProgress )
               Message panel       ( STMessage  )
               Caps lock panel     ( STCaps     )
               Time panel          ( STTime     )
               System name         ( STSystem   )

The names in the parentheses are the names we will use in documentation to refer
to the appropriate panel.

The 'Progress bar' panel tracks the progress of a data transfer within an
application. As the data transfer progresses, the progress bar rectangular
gradually fills from left to right.
The 'Message' panel informs the user about the application status.
The 'Caps lock' panel shows the Caps Lock status of the keyboard.
The 'Time' panel shows the system time. The application will update this panel
at every minute for now (we can update it at every second).
The 'System name' panel shows the system name the user is connected.



2. The menu commands
--------------------

2.1 The 'Miscellaneous' command
-------------------------------

	The accelerator key combination is Alt+M. When this menu bar item is
selected the next drop-down list is opened:

                 1. Connection
                 2. System list
                 3. Panel status
                 4. Descriptors
                 5. File transfer
                 6. Update panel's OS
                 7. Print
                 8. Print preview
                 9. Print setup
                10. Logout
                11. Exit

2.1.1 The 'Connection' command

	When this menu command is selected, the next drop-down list is open:
                  Connect
                  Disconnect

2.1.1.1 The 'Connect' command.

	The WinT3000 uses the PC's COM ports to establish a connection to a remote
control panel (T3000 panel or mini panel). The COM ports can be configured
either as a serial port or as a modem port.
The application can configure the COM ports ( COM1 to COM4 ) using the menu
command Configuration->Hardware->COMM Settings (TF4 window).
Upon selection of this menu command one of the next situations can happen:

1. If there is no port configured, an error message will be displayed in an
error window and a sound will be played. The error window has an OK button. The
application waits for the user to respond to the message. The user can press
ESC key or select the OK button to close the window.

2. If there is only one port, configured as a serial port the application will
try to establish the connection on that port.

3. If there is only one port, configured as a modem port the application will
ask the user to select a system name from a system list and then will try to
establish the connection on that port. After the connecttion is established
the system name is displayed in the 'System name' panel in the status bar.

4. If there is more then one port configured, the third drop-down list will be
opened and the user has to select the COM port on which the connection should
be established. The drop-down list will be:

                  COM1 Text
                  COM2 Text
                  COM3 Text
                  COM4 Text

where 'Text' can be: 'Modem' or 'Serial'. If one COM port is not configured,
the corresponding line will be disabled.
Ex. Let say COM1 is configured as 'Serial', COM3 as 'Modem' and COM2,COM4
are not configured. The drop-down list will be:

                   COM1 Serial
                   COM2           - this line will be disabled
                   COM3 Modem
                   COM4           - this line will be disabled

In this last case, if the 'Connect' command was activated using the
'Connect button' from the status bar, a pop-up menu will be used to reflect
exactly the above description.

After the selection was made the application tries to establish the connection
and the message 'Try to establish connection on COMx' will appear in the
'Message' panel of the status bar. If the connection can be established, the user
has to wait until the application set up the connection. After the connection
was set up, the application will read the descriptors for every control panel
connected on the same network with the remote control panel to which the user
is direct connected. If the connection was established, a sound will be played,
the message 'Connected to <panel name>' will appear in the 'Message' panel of
the status bar and the panel name to which the user is connected will be
displayed in the 'Connect status' window (on the right side of the tool bar).
If the the connecttion was established over a modem port the system name is
displayed in the 'System name' panel in the status bar.

Now, any request will be directed to the remote control panel to which the user
is connected.
If the connection cannot establish in 30 seconds a sound is played,
the message 'Disconnected' will appear in the 'Message' panel of the status bar
and in the 'Connect status' window.
At any time the user can interrupt the actual transfer between the user station
and the remote panel by clicking on the 'Interrupt transfer' icon
(on the right side of the tool bar).


2.1.1.1 The 'Disconnect' command.

	The current connection will be broken and the WinT3000 will disconnect
from the remote control panel.


2.1.2 The 'System list' command ( TF20 window )


  The system list worksheet contains the names of the installations that can be
accessed through WinT3000 and parameters that are used to access a remote system.
The application asks the user to select a system name from the system list and
then will look for a modem port. One of next two situations can happen:
 1. If there is only one modem port configured, the application tries to establish
the connection on that port.
 2. If there is more then one port configured as a modem, the application will
ask the user to select the modem port on which the connection should be
established.

After the selection was made the application will do the same actions describe
in 'Connect' command (2.1.1.1).

The fields defined in the system list worksheet are:
      System Name  - the name of the a remote system
      Phone Number - the phone number the modem will dial to reach the remote
                     system.
      Directory	   - the path directory for this system. The information that
                     need to be saved on the user station related to this job
                     will be saved in this directory.
The system list window (TF20) has attached a menu bar defined as follow:
       Close  Connect  Print
where:
       Close   - close the window and saves any changes
       Connect - initiate the connection process to the currently selected system.
                 As alternative, you can also press the 'Insert' key on the
                 selected system.
       Print   - prints the system list worksheet


2.1.3 The 'Panel status' command ( TF21 window )

	Displays information regarding to the panel status the user is connected and
the communication status of that panel:
                panel number
                panel name
                panel type (T3000 or mini)
                software version (T3000 and mini)
                program file name (.prg)
                imported network points - indicates the number of network points
                             that are imported into the panel from other panels.
                             When select this button a list of all the imported
                             network points will be displayed
                exported network points - indicates the number of points being
                             exporting from the panel. When select this button a
                             list of all the exported network points will be
                             displayed
                notes button - when selected will open a file text (memo file)
                               attached to the panel
                ports status: which port are installed, what kind of connection,
                              and if they are connected or not


2.1.4 The 'Descriptors' command

	Descriptors consist of a label name and a description for every point in the
panel and for every panel on the network. These items are loaded into the PC
memory when the user sign-on. The Descriptors command facilitates the manipulation
of descriptors:

    Load Descriptors Network ( TF23 ) -	loads descriptors from all the panels on
                                        the network.
    Load Descriptors Panel   ( TF24 ) - loads the descriptors from the current
                                        panel
    View Descriptors ( TF25 )- provides an interface to all of the descriptors
                 in a system. This allows the user to select and view descriptors
                 from any panel on the network. A pull down menu allows to select
                 a panel and then the current panel's descriptors will be
                 displayed. This mean that for every point will be displayed its
                 description and its label.
                 The view descriptors window (TF25) consists of:
                    1. a line of buttons on the first line that contains:
                         - a Close button
                         - a pull down list that lists the panel numbers and
                           their name. The user will select one panel
                         - a Preview panel button ( << )
                         - a Next panel button    ( >> )
                         - a Print button
                         - a Print All button
                    2. a worksheet that has defined next fields:
                         - Point type (Output, Input, etc)
                         - Point definition ( 1OUT10, 3PRG2, etc)
                         - Description - point description
                         - Label       - point label
    Search Descriptors ( TF26 ) - allow to identify to which panel belongs a
                                  label, the point type and the point number.
                                  The user types the label and the application
                                  identify it and returns its description
                                  (panel number, point type, point number)


2.1.5 The 'File transfer' command

	Allows file managing on the connected panel and transfers files between the user
station and a remote T3000 control panel. The user can select one of the next
operations:
           Copy file (TF27)   - copy a file on the connected panel
           Read file (TF28)   - copy a file from the remote panel to the user
                                station. If the user station is not connected to
                                a remote panel, this command is disabled.
           Send file (TF29)   - copy a file from the user station to the remote
                                panel. If the user station is not connected to a
                                remote panel, this command is disabled.
           Delete file (TF30) - delete a file on the connected panel
           Rename file (TF31) - rename a file on the connected panel

All these commands should operate dialog windows that allow the use to select
the drive, directory, and file name.
When a file is selected, the file length have to be displayed.
The progress of file transfer have to be reflected in the STProgress panel and
TBInterrupt icon.
In the STMessage panel will be displayed an estimative time of the transfer and
the elapsed time from the beginning of the transfer operation.
Any time, the file transfer can be interrupted by clicking on the TBInterrupt
icon.

If the connected panel is a mini panel the "File transfer' command is disabled.


2.1.6 The 'Update panel's OS' command (TF32)

	This command is used to update the firmware version of the EPROM installed
on the mini panel. The application asks the user for the file name that
contains the update software.
If the connected panel is a T3000 control panel this command is disabled.


2.1.7  The 'Print' command (TF33)

    Print allows the user to print information to the selected printer in a
worksheet format.

    TF33 will be defined later.


2.1.8  The 'Print preview' command (TF34)

   'Print Preview' displays a preview of the print item as it will appear on
paper.

    TF34 will be defined later.


2.1.9  The 'Printer setup' command (TF35)

   The printer setup option displays the standard Windows printer setup.

    TF35 will be defined later.


2.1.10 The 'Logout' command

    The user logout without to exit the application. The user should login before
to can do any other action.


2.1.11 The 'Exit' command

    'Exit' closes the current session of WinT3000 that is running and disconnects
communications if the user is online.


2.2 The 'Panel' command
-----------------------

    The 'Panel' command contains items that allow the user to access panel
properties. The accelerator key combination is Alt+P. When this menu bar item is
selected the next drop-down list is opened:

                 1. File
                 2. Print panel
                 3. Clear panel
                 4. Select panel
                 5. Network status
                 6. Save network


2.3 The 'Control' command
-------------------------

    The 'Control' command allows the user to access the panel objects (inputs,
outputs, etc.). The accelerator key combination is Alt+C. When this menu bar item
is selected the next drop-down list is opened:

                1 Screens          ( TF50 )
                2 Programs         ( TF51 )
                3 Inputs           ( TF52 )
                4 Outputs          ( TF53 )
                5 Controllers      ( TF54 )
                6 Weekly routines  ( TF55 )
                7 Annual routines  ( TF56 )
                8 Arrays           ( TF57 )

When one of the above command is selected the appropiate window will open.
All the windows define for the above commands have:

     1. title bar  - the title bar text consists of the panel name and point type
                     ( Ex: Panel1 - Inputs for 'Inputs' command )

     2. bar menu  - the menu bar has the following skeleton:

				            Close   Edit  Print   Options
                                    ----          -------
                                    Undo          Refresh
                                    Cut           Show Object
                                    Copy          Font
                                    Paste         Color
                                    Delete
                   where:
                        Close   - close the window and saves any changes
                        Edit    - offers the editing features.
							Undo	reverses the last editing action that was
                                    performed  ( Alt + BkSp )
                            Cut     cuts items in worksheet ( Shift + Delete )
                            Copy	makes a duplicate of the selected item in
                                    worksheet (	Ctrl + Insert )
                            Paste	re-inserts the item that have been cut or
                                    copied ( Shift + Insert )
                            Delete  deletes items in worksheet ( Ctrl + Delete )
                        Print   - produces a printed copy of the current window
                        Options - has the following commands:
                            Refresh (TF58) - when a worksheet is viewed the
                                  application updates the data from the panel at
                                  user specified intervals.  This refresh rate
                                  interval has a default value ( 10 seconds ) but
                                  the user can set a refresh value for every
                                  worksheet viewed.
                            Show Object - shows the content of the current
                                  selected object. It applies to screens, programs,
                                  weekly routines, annual routines, arrays, tables,
                                  monitors. All the other object have this option
                                  disabled. As alternative, the user can also
                                  press the 'Insert' key on the current selected
                                  object.
                            Font (TF59) - allows the use to customize the font
                                          of the worksheet
                            Color (TF60)- allows the user to customize the color
                                          for the text displayed in the worksheet
                                          (foreground) and the background of the
                                          worksheet
                            For the Refresh, Font, and Color there are two options:
                            to apply the new setting only to that worksheet or to
                            apply the setting to all the worksheets opened
                            afterward. There should be also an option that allows
                            to restore the factory defaults.

     3. worksheet  - displays the objects (points) properties in a tabular form.
                     The rows of the table represent the objects and the columns
                     represent the object properties. The user can navigate thru
                     the table using the navigators (scroll bars or arrow keys)
                     to view or edit the objects properties.

     4. popup menu - this menu is displayed any time the user clicks the right
                  mouse button anywhere on the worksheet. The popup menu commands
                  are:
                          Close
                          Show Object 
                          Undo
                          Cut
                          Copy
                          Paste
                          Delete
                          Options
>We need a move field, similar to how the move works in operator screens.
>Any program, trend log, con, and display will reflect the changes of the
 move command. If the item is a networked point, the other panels will
 also reflect this change.

                  All commands have the same action as describe above.

The windows can be either modal or modeless. When a window runs modally, the user
must explicitly close it before working in another running window. When a running
window is modeless, it can remain onscreen while the user works in another window
(for example, the application main form).
All the windows opened with the above commands are modeless. This means the user
can open many windows at the same time. The user can navigate thru the windows
and can minimize them. Minimize shrinks an window and the window appears in its
minimized state ( an icon ).
When there is more then one window open, only one can have the focus.
Related to the update, there are two posibilities:

     1. only the window that has the focus has to update its worksheet at the
specified refresh rate. In this case any time a window get focus its worksheet
should be first updated.
     2. all the opened windows have to update their worksheets, except the
windows that are minimized. In this case any time a window get focus its
worksheet is already updated. This version is usefull when we want to monitor
different objects (inputs, outputs, etc.) at the same time. The only inconvenient
is the time needed for updating all the windows.
>Can updating be done in the background ADI? The user's keystrokes work on
> the buffered version on the pC's memory. If there are changes to be sent,
>  the backgound task sends. If not, it is always loading.

In both versions, we limit the number of opened windows at ten.

'Range' field (TF61)
-------------

The field type of these worksheets can be Manual editing fields, Toggle value
fields or Multiple selection fields (see 3.). Some of the worksheets have a
special field of type Multiple selection field , named 'Range'. When such
a field has to be edit a window (TF61) will open and the user can select a
new range value. The layout of this window is:

       1. one group box for the Analog ranges. This group has a ListBox control
          that lists all the analog ranges
       2. one group box for the Digital ranges. This group has the following
          controls:
               - a ListBox control that lists all the standard digital ranges
               - a ListBox control that lists all the custom digital ranges
       3. an OK button
       4. an Cancel button
An item from one of the lists is chosen by selecting one item and then clicking
OK button or double clicking the item. Clicking the Cancel button close the window
without to change the field value.
>Custom ranges can be edited on-screen, they are blank or show "custom1" if
 the user has not entered anything in them

2.3.3 Inputs ( TF52 )

	Inputs can be digital, being either on or off, or analog, having a number of
possible values.
Inputs are objects displayed in a worksheet. The object properties are:

Description  a 20 character description
Auto/Man	 indicates whether the input is in auto or manual mode. In auto mode,
             the input measures the value or state of an input device. In manual
             mode, the value or state of the input is overridden by the value
             shown in the value column.
Value	     displays the state or value of an input
Range	     sets the range of an input. The select range dialogue appears when
             this field is clicked or the ENTER key is pressed (the window
             TF61 will open). The user can choose one of the predefined ranges.
             For a digital range, the left state in the digital range is mapped
             to a value of zero.
Cal    	     is a calibration adjustment added to an analogue point (to compensate
              for wire resistance and sensor inaccuracy).



3. Working with windows
-----------------------

	WinT3000 manipulates many types of windows that display information. A window
can have a title bar, menu bar, pop up menu and a number of controls. WinT3000
has windows that have a special design and regular windows.
The types of windows the WinT3000 uses are:

              Worksheets (Grids)
              Screens
              Graphs
              Program editing windows
              Other windows

3.1 Worksheets

   A worksheet is a tabular grid similar to Excel spreadsheet that list items and
their related information. Numerical data and the all information that can
be organized in lists appear in worksheet form to make editing and viewing easier.
Usually the panel objects are displayed and manipulated in a worksheet.
The rows of the table represent the objects and the columns represent the object
properties.  The user can use the worksheet navigators ( scroll bars or arrow keys )
to move through data in the grid and to edit data in the worksheet.
Each column of a worksheet can be a specific field type with unique editing
properties.  There are three types of fields:

     1. Manual Editing Fields
           To edit a manual editing field, such as Description or Label, move to
           the field you want to edit and enter new data into the field.
     2. Toggle Value Fields
           Toggle fields like Auto/Man are fields that can have a value from a
           predefined list of values (usually two values). The value can be
           toggled by clicking the left mouse button or by pressing ENTER.
     3. Multiple selection fields
           This type of field is related to a list of values or ranges that are
           setup in software.  By clicking on such a field, a list box will appear
           and the user can select an item


3.2 Screens

	They are graphical windows showing panels' points.


3.3 Graphs

    They are graphcal windows showing trendlog.


3.4 Program editing windows

    They are editing windows for programming in Control Basic.


3.5 Other windows

    They are regular windows that works as an interface between the user and the
application. In such windows the user manipulates different kind of controls:
static text, buttons, editing fields, images.


